- Communication is important in every role,
but in a leadership role, it's essential.
And it's a little different because you'll be communicating
with a wider and more diverse audience
to get things done.
In a single day, you may need to communicate
with your team, partners in the business you support,
your senior leadership,
and other teams that you must collaborate with.
Each of those audiences will have different motivations,
so you'll need to structure and frame your interactions
with them so they're on target and at the right level.
For example, in a work session with your team
you might get deep into the technical details of a solution,
but when the same solution is presented
to senior leadership, they'll be more interested
in its schedule, costs, and the benefits it delivers
to the business.
During these daily interactions,
it's best to lean towards overcommunication
to ensure you've conveyed
or understood the message correctly.
Listen intently when someone's sharing information with you.
And if you're not clear after that,
try to confirm the key points or agreements you reached
by reflecting them back to them.
In all communications,
the primary goal is to be understood
or to understand the other person.
So you need to avoid the pitfall
of attempting to impress your audience
with overly complex jargon and grandstanding.
If your team's work has high visibility,
you might be asked to present information about it
to your organization, your department, senior leaders,
or any other group that might benefit
from an understanding of your work.
So you need to be comfortable speaking in public.
The trick here is preparation and practice.
Lots of it,
because the more times you repeat your message,
the more comfortably and clearly you'll deliver it.
These are also great opportunities
to share the spotlight with your team.
By getting them involved in the presentation,
you can highlight their contributions
and build a sense of ownership.
Just make sure they're comfortable
and prepared to speak to the audience
by working closely with them to craft a clear message
and holding dry runs to practice the presentation.
When presenting to senior audiences,
run your key points past influential individuals
in the audience that you know, ahead of time,
they might have some insights to help clarify your message,
and it helps to generate some support for it.
In your communications, you'll benefit tremendously
from being able to create graphics
that express your vision and technical ideas.
Having diagrams that provide different views of your system
or that depict key milestones on your team's roadmap,
provide a visual aid that will help others better
understand them and allow you
to collect more valuable feedback.
You'll often be able to reuse these materials
with different audiences and situations.
So it always pays to make the investment
in visually depicting your ideas.
The process of building these graphics will also
help you clarify and refine your approach.
There's a lot of options for creating nice graphics
that convey your message.
In my work, I primarily use PowerPoint, Visio,
and an open source tool named InkScape.
Each of these tools gives you the ability
to create some pretty complex visuals
if you learn how to use their more advanced features.
Communication is challenging,
messages can get misinterpreted and everyone
has their own communication style and preference.
The more you work to reduce these communication barriers,
the better you'll become at transferring key information
between different groups in your organization,
making you a much more effective leader.